docs/space.md, before:

# TODO

- jump points
- jump
- sector generator
- wait time between ship operations
- cockpit 
- command hire

# Design

- build a ship like Aurora 4x
- giving the components a ship is created with many rooms
- hire a crew
- land and fly around
- as factorio, everything that player do need to be automatized 

## Orbit movement

Find root of both places, make diff from the root, sum others.

### Case 1

Star 0
- Earth 200
  - Luna 5
    - Trade 0.1
- Mars 320

Luna -> Earth ->  Star -> Mars
0.1 + 5 + abs(200 - 320) = 125.1

### Case 2

Star 0
- Earth 200
  - Luna 5
    - Trade 0.1
  - ISS 0.2

Luna 0.1 + abs(Earth 0.5 - ISS 0.2) = 0.4

Star 0
- Earth 200
  - Luna 5
    - Trade 0.1
- Mars 320
  - Olympus 2
     - Olympus Station 0.2

Luna 0.1 + Earth 5 + abs(Star 200 - Mars 320) + Olympus 2 + Station 0.2 = 127.3 

###  Case 3 

## Galaxy

Galaxy is like a big sphere, where start systems can jump anywhere in the borders. Player can stay in the border systems
that have low probability to find someone else. Or they can jump in direction of the center, that giving th amount
of systems decrease, bigger chance to find other players.

In direction of the center, more dangerous, and more rewards.

## Start systems

Each player start into a unique start system outside of may galaxy. Only player knows its coordinates, others can only 
go there if he shares it. When your system coord are shared, now way to block access (maybe cyno jammers)

## Atmospheric landing

- each bodie has defined atmosphere pressure value
- each vehicle has a aerodynamic value
- ratio is defined by vehicle aerodynamics divided by bodie atmosphere pressure
- aerodynamics 0-1 are smoothing shaping, from 1-2 are wings like structures. 
- the ration defined a exponential how much fuel is require to land or take off

## Diplomacy

user defite a value between -10 to 10 between each other player
each player have some karma value that is defined by player actions
aggressive actions count to decrease hhe karma if any player have a positive relation
drastically if the attacker has positive (traitor)
change in relations take time. To have no penalties you need to have -10
each day you can move one point in any direction
karma increase by number of people have positive stand.
Negative karma is much strong that positive. If you mess up three times, is hard to come back

## Crew

Each group of components in a craft require crew to manage
Ship components are furniture in rooms. They can be examited, managed and repair
lack of crew cause % performance degradation in every task.

## DV require to land and move between planets

https://camo.githubusercontent.com/78adc73bf13274c230318a14f1cc34bdb7337b28/687474703a2f2f692e696d6775722e636f6d2f4141474a7644312e706e67

Commit message:

ship go to start orbit when move between systems

docs/space.md, after:

# TODO


- look/examine transport do not work
- sector generator
- wait time between ship operations
- cockpit, need to sit to control the ship
- compute time travel time, now all flying move is 5 seconds
- replace coord system by orbit by and orbit distance
- replace ship moviment by burn, travel, retroburn, cyclo burn etc
- secttormap
    - show numbers
    - show coords
    - allow to move by numbers
- time to land, time to launch
- see inside a Vehicle

# Design

- build a ship like Aurora 4x
- giving the components a ship is created with many rooms
- hire a crew
- land and fly around
- as factorio, everything that player do need to be automatized 

## Orbit movement

Find root of both places, make diff from the root, sum others.

### Case 1

Star 0
- Earth 200
  - Luna 5
    - Trade 0.1
- Mars 320

Luna -> Earth ->  Star -> Mars
0.1 + 5 + abs(200 - 320) = 125.1

### Case 2

Star 0
- Earth 200
  - Luna 5
    - Trade 0.1
  - ISS 0.2

Luna 0.1 + abs(Earth 0.5 - ISS 0.2) = 0.4

Star 0
- Earth 200
  - Luna 5
    - Trade 0.1
- Mars 320
  - Olympus 2
     - Olympus Station 0.2

Luna 0.1 + Earth 5 + abs(Star 200 - Mars 320) + Olympus 2 + Station 0.2 = 127.3 

###  Case 3 

## Galaxy

Galaxy is like a big sphere, where start systems can jump anywhere in the borders. Player can stay in the border systems
that have low probability to find someone else. Or they can jump in direction of the center, that giving th amount
of systems decrease, bigger chance to find other players.

In direction of the center, more dangerous, and more rewards.

## Start systems

Each player start into a unique start system outside of may galaxy. Only player knows its coordinates, others can only 
go there if he shares it. When your system coord are shared, now way to block access (maybe cyno jammers)

## Atmospheric landing

- each bodie has defined atmosphere pressure value
- each vehicle has a aerodynamic value
- ratio is defined by vehicle aerodynamics divided by bodie atmosphere pressure
- aerodynamics 0-1 are smoothing shaping, from 1-2 are wings like structures. 
- the ration defined a exponential how much fuel is require to land or take off

## Diplomacy

user defite a value between -10 to 10 between each other player
each player have some karma value that is defined by player actions
aggressive actions count to decrease hhe karma if any player have a positive relation
drastically if the attacker has positive (traitor)
change in relations take time. To have no penalties you need to have -10
each day you can move one point in any direction
karma increase by number of people have positive stand.
Negative karma is much strong that positive. If you mess up three times, is hard to come back

## Crew

Each group of components in a craft require crew to manage
Ship components are furniture in rooms. They can be examited, managed and repair
lack of crew cause % performance degradation in every task.

## DV require to land and move between planets

https://camo.githubusercontent.com/78adc73bf13274c230318a14f1cc34bdb7337b28/687474703a2f2f692e696d6775722e636f6d2f4141474a7644312e706e67
